As an asynchronous event driven JavaScript runtime, Node.js is designed to build scalable network applications. In the following "hello world" example, many connections can be handled concurrently. Upon each connection the callback is fired, but if there is no work to be done, Node.js will sleep.
const http = require('http');

const hostname = '127.0.0.1';

const port = 3000;

const server = http.createServer((req, res) => {

  res.statusCode = 200;

  res.setHeader('Content-Type', 'text/plain');

  res.end('Hello World\n');

});

server.listen(port, hostname, () => {

  console.log(`Server running at http://${hostname}:${port}/`);

});

Node.js is similar in design to, and influenced by, systems like Ruby's Event Machine or Python's Twisted. Node.js takes the event model a bit further. It presents an event loop as a runtime construct instead of as a library. 
In other systems there is always a blocking call to start the event-loop. Typically behavior is defined through callbacks at the beginning of a script and at the end starts a server through a blocking call like EventMachine::run(). 
In Node.js there is no such start-the-event-loop call. Node.js simply enters the event loop after executing the input script. 
Node.js exits the event loop when there are no more callbacks to perform. This behavior is like browser JavaScript — the event loop is hidden from the user.

HTTP is a first class citizen in Node.js, designed with streaming and low latency in mind. This makes Node.js well suited for the foundation of a web library or framework.

Just because Node.js is designed without threads, doesn't mean you cannot take advantage of multiple cores in your environment. Child processes can be spawned by using our child_process.fork() API, and are designed to be easy to communicate with. 
Built upon that same interface is the cluster module, which allows you to share sockets between processes to enable load balancing over your cores.

 ## ECMAScript 2015 (ES6) and beyond
Node.js is built against modern versions of V8. By keeping up-to-date with the latest releases of this engine, we ensure new features from the JavaScript ECMA-262 specificationare brought to Node.js developers in a timely manner, as well as continued performance and stability improvements.

All ECMAScript 2015 (ES6) features are split into three groups for shipping, staged, and in progress features:

All shipping features, which V8 considers stable, are turned on by default on Node.jsand do NOT require any kind of runtime flag.
Staged features, which are almost-completed features that are not considered stable by the V8 team, require a runtime flag: --harmony.
In progress features can be activated individually by their respective harmony flag, although this is highly discouraged unless for testing purposes. Note: these flags are exposed by V8 and will potentially change without any deprecation notice.

Which features ship with which Node.js version by default?
The website node.green provides an excellent overview over supported ECMAScript features in various versions of Node.js, based on kangax's compat-table.



Which features are in progress?
New features are constantly being added to the V8 engine. Generally speaking, expect them to land on a future Node.js release, although timing is unknown.

You may list all the in progress features available on each Node.js release by grepping through the --v8-options argument. Please note that these are incomplete and possibly broken features of V8, so use them at your own risk:

node --v8-options | grep "in progress"

What about the performance of a particular feature?
The V8 team is constantly working to improve the performance of new language features to eventually reach parity with their transpiled or native counterparts in EcmaScript 5 and earlier. The current progress there is tracked on the website six-speed, which shows the performance of ES2015 and ESNext features compared to their native ES5 counterparts.

The work on optimizing features introduced with ES2015 and beyond is coordinated via a performance plan, where the V8 team gathers and coordinates areas that need improvement, and design documents to tackle those problems.

## Activity 3 question and answers.

Node.js is an open-source, cross-platform JavaScript runtime environment that allows developers to run JavaScript code outside of a web browser. 
It is built on Chrome's V8 JavaScript engine and provides a way to execute server-side JavaScript, enabling the development of scalable and high-performance network applications.
 is initiated on a computer by running JavaScript code using the Node.js runtime. You can create a JavaScript file with your code (for example, app.js) and run it through the Node.js interpreter in the command line by typing node app.js. 
This will execute the code in the app.js file using Node.js.


